[MUSIC]
>> Nina Zakharenko: So the last thing that
we're gonna talk about today is scope and
scope means where and how you can
use the variables you've declared.
So if you define a variable in a function,
it's only visible to that function.
If you declare a variable outside of
the function, and that function is in that
same file or space, then you can use
that variable in your functions.
So let's talk about what happens
when you forget to use var.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
>> Nina Zakharenko: We have two
functions here.
Print fruit and a print veggie.
Each declare is a variable inside of them.
And then, writes that variable.
If we do print fruit and print veggie,
everything is super happy,
we get the results we expect.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's
do this quick exercise.
We're gonna copy
the document.write that's in fruit
into the bottom of your veggie
function and just run the code as is.
Can someone tell me what
the result of that is?
>> Nina Zakharenko: So, nada.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Veggie
doesn't know what a fruit is.
So we're gonna do something tricky and
remove this var in front of the fruit.
So now it's popping up.
And the reason is because if you
declare a variable in JavaScript
without using var,
it plops it on the global scope.
It's like, hey, anyone can use me,
read me, change me, do whatever.
And that's a pretty bad thing.
It can happen by mistake.
If you accidentally forget the var and
then reuse the variable name.
So don't do it.
Try to be very careful about using var and
not really populating,
or polluting the global scope
with different variables.
So even if you have a good use case,
you know maybe you do want a variable
used across all sorts of functions.
Try not to do it.
It's a really bad practice.
>> Nina Zakharenko: A good rule
of thumb about scopes is this
little squiggly brackets.
If things are nested, then it can
probably access the parent variables.
But if things are kinda of the same
level like this printFruit and
this printVeggie, then they
probably can't access each other.
And that's functions and classes but
does not apply to if or for
statements, for example.
>> Nina Zakharenko: This
make sense to everyone?
This is kind of something
that's kind of tricky, yeah.